0x04. Loops, conditions and parsing
The for loop is the first of the three shell looping constructs.

. This loop allows for specification of a list of values.

. A list of commands is executed for each value in the list

. The syntax for this loop is:

for NAME [in LIST ]; do COMMANDS; done

NAME can be any variable name, although i is used very often. LIST can be any list of words, strings or numbers, which can be literal or generated by any command. The COMMANDS to execute can also be any operating system commands, script, program or shell statement. The first time through the loop, NAME is set to the first item in LIST. The second time, its value is set to the second item in the list, and so on. The loop terminates when NAME has taken on each of the values from LIST and no items are left in LIST.

Other Comparison Operators
A binary comparison operator compares two variables or quantities. Note that integer and string comparison use a different set of operators.

integer comparison

-eq

is equal to

 if [ "$a" -eq "$b" ]
-ne

is not equal to

if [ "$a" -ne "$b" ]
-gt

   is greater than

   if [ "$a" -gt "$b" ]
-ge

   is greater than or equal to

   if [ "$a" -ge "$b" ]
-lt is less than

   if [ "$a" -lt "$b" ]
-le is less than or equal to

    if [ "$a" -le "$b" ]
<

is less than (within double parentheses)

(("$a" < "$b"))

<=

is less than or equal to (within double parentheses)

(("$a" <= "$b"))

is greater than (within double parentheses)

(("$a" > "$b"))

=

is greater than or equal to (within double parentheses)

(("$a" >= "$b"))

File test operators
-e

file exists
-a

file exists

This is identical in effect to -e. It has been "deprecated," [1] and its use is discouraged.

-f

file is a regular file (not a directory or device file)

-s

file is not zero size

-d

file is a directory
-b

file is a block device

-c

file is a character device

-h

file is a symbolic link

-L

file is a symbolic link

-S

file is a socket
-t

file (descriptor) is associated with a terminal device

This test option may be used to check whether the stdin [ -t 0 ] or stdout [ -t 1 ] in a given script is a terminal.

-r

file has read permission (for the user running the test)

-w

file has write permission (for the user running the test)

-x

file has execute permission (for the user running the test)

-g

set-group-id (sgid) flag set on file or directory

If a directory has the sgid flag set, then a file created within that directory belongs to the group that owns the directory, not necessarily to the group of the user who created the file. This may be useful for a directory shared by a workgroup.

-u

set-user-id (suid) flag set on file

A binary owned by root with set-user-id flag set runs with root privileges, even when an ordinary user invokes it. [2] This is useful for executables (such as pppd and cdrecord) that need to access system hardware. Lacking the suid flag, these binaries could not be invoked by a non-root user.